STRUCTURE OF AN EMAIL HEADER



FIELD						DETAILS

From						The sender's address.
To						The receiver's address, including CC and BCC.
Date						Timestamp, when the email was sent.
Subject						The subject of the email.
Return path					The return address of the reply, a.k.a. "Reply-To".
						If you reply to an email, the reply will go to the address mentioned in this field.
Domain Key and DKIM Signatures			Email signatures are provided by email services to identify and authenticate emails.
Sender Policy Framework (SPF)			Shows the server that was used to send the email.
						It will help to understand if the actual server is used to send the email from a specific domain.
Message-ID					Unique ID of the email.
MIME-Version 					Used MIME version.
						It will help to understand the delivered "non-text" contents and attachments.
X-Headers					The receiver mail providers usually add these fields.
						Provided info is usually experimental and can be different according to the mail provider.
X-Received					Mail servers that the email went through.
X-Spam Status					Spam score of the email.
X-Mailer					Email client name.




IMPORTANT EMAIL HEADER FIELDS FOR QUICK ANALYSIS



QUESTIONS TO ASK / REQUIRED CHECKS					EVALUATION

Do the "From", "To", and "CC" fields contain valid addresses?		Having invalid addresses is a red flag.
Do the "From" and "To" fields are the same?				Having the same sender and recipient is a red flag.
Do the "From" and "Return-Path" fields are the same?			Having different values in these sections is a red flag.
Was the email sent from the correct server?				Email should have come from the official mail servers of the sender.
Does the "Message-ID" field exist, and is it valid?			Empty and malformed values are red flags.
Do the hyperlinks redirect to suspicious/abnormal sites?		Suspicious links and redirections are red flags.
Do the attachments consist of or contain malware?			Suspicious attachments are a red flag.
									File hashes marked as suspicious/malicious by sandboxes are a red flag.


















	
						
						
						
						
						
