WHAT IS EMAIL ANALYSIS?

The process of extracting the email header information to expose the email file details. The email header contains the technical details of the 
email like sender, recipient, path, return address and attachments. Usually, these details are enough to determine if there is something 
suspicious/abnormal in the email and decide on further actions on the email, like filtering/quarantining or delivering. This process can be done 
manually and with the help of tools.

There are two main concerns in email analysis.
        Security issues: Identifying suspicious/abnormal/malicious patterns in emails.
        Performance issues: Identifying delivery and delay issues in emails.

Social engineering: Social engineering is the psychological manipulation of people into performing or divulging information by exploiting weaknesses 
        in human nature. These "weaknesses" can be curiosity, jealousy, greed, kindness, and willingness to help someone.
Phishing: Phishing is a sub-section of social engineering delivered through email to trick someone into either revealing personal information and 
        credentials or executing malicious code on their computer.

        Phishing emails will usually appear to come from a trusted source, whether that's a person or a business. They include content that tries to 
tempt or trick people into downloading software, opening attachments, or following links to a bogus website.

 -> Important Note: In-depth analysis requires an isolated environment to work. It is only suggested to download and upload the received emails and 
 attachments if you are in the authorised team and have an isolated environment. Suppose you are outside the corresponding team or a regular user. In 
 that case, you can evaluate the email header using the raw format and conduct the essential checks like the sender, recipient, spam score and server 
 information. Remember that you have to inform the corresponding team afterwards.
 
 
 
 Source : TryHackme
